[MUSIC]
>> Brian: Let's go do some
debugging techniques.
We're gonna talk about
react tools right now.
So, so far I've been making
you use console.log for
everything and or alerts or
dumping your state out to the dom.
We're actually use a Chrome extension now
to be able to inspect what's happening
inside a react.
And they're called react dev tools.
They're officially supported and
created by the react team.
So come over to your browser and
search for like react dev tools.
They exist both for Firefox and for
Chrome I'm gonna use the Chrome one
because that's the one I know how to use.
I believe they are also making them for
Safari it might even already exist on
Safari I'm not sure.
>> Brian: And
if you're using Microsoft Edge I
believe what you can do is you actually
go grab the Chrome DevTools and point your
chrome DevTools at Microsoft edge and
that'll actually work.
I'm not gonna show you how cuz
I saw someone do it once and
I haven't done it myself so.
Okay, so go ahead and
download this extension.
>> Brian: And then what
you're gonna need to do unless you're
running your own dev server, I'm not.
I'm just running it from my file protocol.
If you're running it from your own like
H.T.T.P. server or simple H.T.T.P.
server or whatever then you're golden.
You need to do anything.
If you're like me, and you're running
it from file, go to Chrome and
by the way I don't know
how to do this in Firefox.
So if you’re on Firefox
you’re on your own.
chrome://extensions and
then go down here and
find react tools, wherever that is.
Jeez I have a lot of extensions.
Go down here and say allow access to
file URLs, and you have to do that or
else it's not going to work locally.
So chrome://extensions and allow access
to file URLs right there.
>> Brian: Okay.
Once you have that then you can come
back over here to your svideo and
what we're gonna do is we're
gonna open our dev tools.
For those of you who don't
know how to do that.
I think you can do it with.
>> Speaker 2: F12.
>> Brian: Yeah, F12 on Mac or
sorry on Windows it's alt
command J to open them on Mac.
Okay.
And now you should have this react tab,
now, if you're not seeing it.
First of all, make sure that file is
checked, the one that we saw over here.
Also, try restarting your
browser that might also help.
I will say it's a bit finicky sometimes to
be able to see this because if it doesn't
detect react on the page
it doesn't display
the tab.
>> Brian: Okay is
anyone not seeing it that's
expecting to see it?
Speak now or forever hold your peace.
Okay, so
now we kind of have sorry this is kind
of probably a little bit harder to see
>> Brian: The.
>> Brian: Okay so
we see we have App right that's
the name of our route component.
And if you go in here you see a router and
then disclaimer here router is adding
stuff in the middle, that you don't
necessarily have to worry about.
So we see the layout right, that's the one
that we created that's the layout for
the whole page.
Now we can go into search, right?
That's the name of our search route.
And then let's look here,
so let's search right?
We have properties that
are all getting past in.
We can check out what those properties
are, in this case it's empty.
If you look down at State,
we can see search terms is blank, but
if I start typing in here.
It's gonna start updating which is
pretty cool and actually you know,
I wanna update it down here, I can say no
you know what make this dare right and
then it'll actually update the state
directly into react for you.
That's only possible state, right?
That makes sense, because a component
can only modify its own state,
it cannot modify its properties.
>> Brian: You
can see what routes are being passed in,
you can look at the route props like that.
All that's available to you.
Or like say if I clicked into daredevil or
not clicks but
details/ do I have one here?
Here we go.
>> Brian: There we go look at that one.
So now I'm in my details route.
I can see what's going on here.
I can see the route prints are for that.
I can look at what's in my header
right now doesn't have any props which
is what we would expect.
So let's talk about some other
neat features we can do here.
So first of all hopefully that's helpful
for you just to be able to look at
the state and the properties right,
that's pretty A plus cool right.
But we can also do some really fun
stuff and I say I wanna figure out what
component this is or
maybe my back buttons broken right.
So I'm going to say
right click on this and
say inspect right we're
used to doing that.
That's going to take you
over to your elements
like this is just
the normal browser right.
But while this is selected
in my elements browser.
I can actually go over to react and it's
going to be smart enough to find what
that actually is whatever I have
selected over there is actually going to
be selected over my react tools, right.
So now this is highlighted.
But, right, I can actually see that
it's selected that over there.
So just, let's say we want to look at
the poster, maybe the poster's not right.
So you say Inspect.
All right, so
it selected that in my element browser.
And now I'm going to go
over to the react tools.
And notice that now that is
selected in my react tools as well.
So that's a really easy thing to do.
Let's say I need to
interact pro-grammatically.
Maybe there's a method on it I wanna call.
I'm going to go in and select header which
is my entire header here in my react tools
and I'm going to go to my console
I'm going to say dollar $ R
and that's actually, now I can
pro-grammatically interact with it, right.
So I can say $ R.props and right now I
just get back the empty object, right, but
I could be able to now pro-grammatically
interact with this in an interesting way.
So a dollar sign R is whatever you
have selected in the react tools.
I think that's also fairly cool in my
opinion.
>> Brian: As an aside if you're not
aware of this, this is just a chrome
dev tools thing in general.
You can actually say,
I want to select video info.
So I just do that in my elements browser.
I can go back to console and
say dollar sign zero, and
that's actually going to be
the same way to interact with that
programmatically using
the Chrome dev tools.
FYI.
>> Brian: [COUGH]
I'll leave you to do
the rest of that yourself.
I mean that's more or
less gist of the react tools but
any questions about that the just
incredibly useful for debugging.